HR support system for resume evaluation
Advanced Predictive Analysis

1) About the problem:
   . What is the problem? 
      Human resources specialists are meant to recruit, screen and interview job candidates however finding qualified and desired applicants within a pool 
      of candidates requires thorough analysis of their experience in the field. According to a study by the National Federation of Independent Business, 
      87% of HR professionals could not find suitable or qualified candidates for their job openings. 
   
   . What causes the problem? 
      Using data for recruiting is difficult as recruiters need to consider multiple factors to identify how the candidate would continue for the coming years
      withing the job as well as the long and short term outcomes. Furthermore, bias in employee recruiting is also highly prevalent in the recruiting process
      and may impede in identifying whether or not candidates are fit for the job

2) Solution:

   . What is Resume evaluation
      Resume evaluation is the process of determining whether a candidate is qualified for a role based his or her education, experience, and other information 
      captured on their resume. In layman’s terms it's a form of pattern matching between a job's requirements and the qualifications of a candidate based on their 
      resume. This will allow data recruiters to attain information of the candidates which further aids in their decision making.
      
   . What is predictive analytics?
      Predictive analytics is part of advanced analytics which predicts the future outcomes by using data from the past, data mining techniques, predictive modeling,
      and machine learning.This allows recruitment to occur with the consideration of the education, experience, and other information within their resumes without 
      any bias into play, further allowing a more effective recruitment process entirely.
   
3) Where does AI help i this:

   How does AI help in making this possible?
     An AI screening software would filter out the applicants who do not fit the companies criteria from data collected and narrowing down all the appliants to
     a smaller group of qualified the best qualified candidtes with a 100% bias free algorithm. AI could filter out influenial factors like the years of experience, 
     demographic details, expected payment ect.
   
     AI would greatly impact the time process it would take HR and recruiting agencies to find their ideal canditate for the job

      

   
      
    
