Product propensity models for online shopping

1) About the problem:

  What is the problem?

    Online shops are nowadays being neglected and most customers would rather go in person to buy most products. 
    It takes too much effort to find the product they need, websites have not adapted enough to catch the attention spans of the current generation.

  What causes the problem?

	  Most e-commerce websites usually display all catalogs of products that they have for sale,
    although from a customer’s point of view this can sometimes be overwhelming as they have to navigate through a cluttered user interface.


2)The Solution:

  What is product propensity?

    Product propensity is a model that is able to predict the chance that a customer on an e-commerce website purchases
    a specific product based on previous data and features collected containing; past purchases, profile customizations, viewed products, etc.

  How is this implemented into online shopping?

    The model can be used to gather certain inclinations that each customer may have and create a webpage that is tailored to their product preferences.

  How will this solve the problem?

    The new customer-specific pages will let users access more products that they will be more inclined to buy right on the home page,
    this will allow for fewer clicks which will result in more sales for the company overall, and it will also boost customer satisfaction
    as they will be appreciative of the quick and efficient product recommendation that is tailored to them specifically.


3) How does AI help in making this possible:

	Artificial intelligence is applied here by first carrying out data collection. This consists of features such as clicks on certain products, 
  if a user added an item to their basket, if they clicked on a product’s estimated delivery time, and much more.
  Once sufficient data is collected an algorithm can be trained to create a model that can predict what a customer would desire.
  
	The whole process would be automated as and when customers purchase or view different products the algorithm will learn and 
  adapt its parameters to display the right products on the user’s screen. 

