Live speech to text convertor for specially abled people

AI speech-to-text is a field in computer science that specializes in enabling computers to recognize and transcribe spoken language into text. 
It is also called speech recognition, computer speech recognition, or automatic speech recognition (ASR).

1) About the problem:

What are the problems?

Peripheral background sounds
Another top speech recognition problem that needs a solution is – noise. It is everywhere! And so, it becomes the job of the ASR solution to accurately catch the speech input through unwanted sounds. 
An ASR should be able to pick up the input’s sound waves even from a distance in a room riddled with white noise and cross-talk. Echo, for example, also adds to the imprecision. 
Reflected sound waves from surfaces in the space distort the receptor’s ability to process the actual input unerringly.

Accents and Dialects – even regular humans often have trouble understanding what someone is saying in their shared language, due to local differences in dialects 
and accents. Programming the AI to detect all these nuances takes time and is very challenging indeed.

2) The solution:
one way to train your ASR to perform well is by seeding it through non-ideal training environments and reducing noise from the audio input before speech-to-text (STT) conversion. 
Where user intent and localisation come into the picture, businesses need to focus on specific regions. Ideally, an ASR model pre-trained on multiple intents 
and languages with a focus on dialects/accents is a win-win.  The speech recognition system identifies the language regardless of the speaker’s accent 
or place of origin (dialect differs). 

3) How does AI help in making this possible:

The use of Artificial Intelligence here is firstly carrying out the data collection. It is a data analysis technology that is not pre-programmed explicitly.
Based on the collection of data, an algorithm can be used to train the model that can be used to solve the problem. 
